The abdominal wall is a sheet of muscle and tendon
extending from the ribs to the groin.
It holds and protects the contents of the abdomen.
A hernia is an area of weakness in the wall
that allows fat or organs
to push through, causing a bulge.
Hernias often occur in the groin.
Groin hernias are either inguinal,
meaning they occur above the inguinal ligament,
or femoral, occurring below this ligament.
Some inguinal hernias
occur when the inguinal canal
the pathway for the testicles
to descend from the abdomen
in a male fetus--fails to close.
These are called indirect inguinal hernias.
Others—called direct inguinal hernias
result from stress on or degeneration
of abdominal muscle as a person ages.
Inguinal hernias are more common in men
but may also develop in women.
Femoral hernias, which occur in the
upper part of the thigh,
are more common in women.
A ventral hernia, also called an incisional hernia,
occurs when scar tissue, following abdominal surgery
weakens the abdominal wall.
Potential complications of hernias
include an organ pushing through
and become trapped in the hole.
Digested food may become blocked.
In the worst case, arteries may be pinched,
cutting off the blood supply,
and killing living tissue in the bowel or other organs.